

SLIDE 3
What role do judicial assistants play in the judicial decision making process in Dutch courts?



SLIDE 4
before: 

The position of judicial assistants in courts has changed in the past decade.

While judicial assistants used to provide administrative support to judges, they now provide substantial contribution and advice to judges (Niesen & Pieterse, 2009).

This new role means that judicial assistants can influence the outcome of a case. Holvast (2017) concluded:



SLIDE 5
judicial assistants have power



SLIDE 6 [PHOTO OF JUDGE AND ASSISTANT]

INFLUENCE OVER THE OUTCOME OF A CASE? HOLD ON A MINUTE. 

It's the judge that's supposed to do that. Not a judicial assistant. Our constitution says so, they give the impression they do so, and the checks and balances in our system are designed to ensure the impartiality of the judge. Not the judicial assistant.

That's why we want to find out if they have influence. And how much.



SLIDE 7 [FOUR PHOTOS]

Various methodologies have been employed to research this topic. Holvast (2017) employed various qualitative methods:
document analyses,
participant observations, and
in-depth interviews.

More recently, Holvast and Mascini (2020) conducted an experimental survey among Dutch administrative law district court judges to measure the role and influence of judicial assistants in adjudication. Similar survey-based research was done by Swanson and Wasby (2008) in the US. 


SLIDE 8 and 9

Because the research Holvast has done - although good - can't just simply be repeated. The access to the sources she has, takes an enormous amount of effort to contact.

There should be a different way to verify the outcome of her research. That's what science is about: verification through repetition.

TWO METHODOLOGIES:
- literature research
- statistical research



SLIDE 10

Past 8 slides were on why a data analysis is necessary.

Describe five steps of stats. Step 1 is what I presented until now.


SLIDE 11

Connect five steps to what I still have to do. Green = done. Orange = currently doing. Red = to do.

1. define why you need data analysis
2. begin collecting data from sources
3. clean trhough unneccesary data
4. begin analysizng the data
5. interpret results and apply them


SLIDE 12

Describe control variables


SLIDE 13

Describe weaknesses
